doc: Add Security FIPS section (#1181)
bareos/bareos: docs/manuals/source/TasksAndConcepts/BareosSecurityIssues.rst

Our tests with the :command:`sdelete` command was not successful, as :command:`sdelete` seems to stay active in the background.

.. _section-FIPS:

FIPS Mode
---------

> :strong:`FIPS` acronym stand for Federal Information Processing Standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The acronym :strong:`FIPS` stands for Federal Information Processing Standards.
```

> To be able to run successfully Bareos in `FIPS` mode so adjustment need to be made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to run Bareos in `FIPS` mode some adjustment need to be made.
```

To our knowledge only `Enterprise grade` qualified distribution can be used for the certification

> but those rules should apply also to derivative like CentOS, openSUSE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but those rules should apply also to derivative like CentOS or openSUSE.
```

> :strong:`beware of Signature option` all MD5 related function are disabled in `FIPS` mode.

Reviewer: :```suggestion
:strong:`Beware of  the fileset *Signature* option.` All MD5 related function are disabled in `FIPS` mode.
```

Author: ```suggestion
:strong:`beware of the fileset *Signature* option` all MD5 related function are disabled in `FIPS` mode.
```

> if you see error log like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if you see errors log like:
```

.. code-block::

   Warning: MD5 digest digest initialization failed
   Error: OpenSSL digest initialization failed: ERR=error:060800C8:digital envelope routines:EVP_DigestInit_ex:disabled for FIPS

> You will have to change the Signature option in you fileset to something stronger that MD5 or SHA1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will have to change the **Signature** option in you fileset to something stronger than MD5 or SHA1, for example **SHA256**:
```

.. code-block:: bareosconfig

   FileSet {
      Name = "File"
      Description = "Backup FIPS MODE"
      Include {
         Options {
            Signature = "SHA256"
   ...

RedHat RHEL 8
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For RedHat RHEL 8 follow the editor instructions located at:
https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/security_hardening/assembly_installing-a-rhel-8-system-with-fips-mode-enabled_security-hardening

> The above test procedure should work out of the box, and Bareos daemons should select only FIPS approved protocols.

Author: ```suggestion
For RedHat RHEL 9 follow the editor instructions located at:
https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/security_hardening/assembly_installing-the-system-in-fips-mode_security-hardening

The above test procedure should work out of the box, and Bareos daemons should select only FIPS approved protocols.
```

SUSE Linux Enterprise 15
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install and activate FIPS mode under SLES you have to follow the documentation located at

> https://documentation.suse.com/sles/15-SP3/html/SLES-all/cha-security-fips.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://documentation.suse.com/sles/15-SP4/html/SLES-all/cha-security-fips.html
```

   # Coming for RHEL 8 fips enabled mode
   openssl_conf = default_modules

   [ default_modules ]
   ssl_conf = ssl_module

   [ ssl_module ]
   system_default = crypto_policy

   [ crypto_policy ]
   CipherString = @SECLEVEL=2:kEECDH:kEDH:kPSK:kDHEPSK:kECDHEPSK:-kRSA:-aDSS:-CHACHA20-POLY1305:-3DES:!DES:!RC4:!RC2:!IDEA:-SEED:!eNULL:!aNULL:!MD5:-SHA384:-CAMELLIA:-ARIA:-AESCCM8
   Ciphersuites = TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384:TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256:TLS_AES_128_CCM_SHA256
   MinProtocol = TLSv1.2
   MaxProtocol = TLSv1.3
   SignatureAlgorithms = ECDSA+SHA256:ECDSA+SHA384:ECDSA+SHA512:rsa_pss_pss_sha256:rsa_pss_rsae_sha256:rsa_pss_pss_sha384:rsa_pss_rsae_sha384:rsa_pss_pss_sha512:rsa_pss_rsae_sha512:RSA+SHA256:RSA+SHA384:RSA+SHA512:ECDSA+SHA224:RSA+SHA224

Then edit the `/etc/ssl/openssl.conf` and use the instruction on top to include the previous prepared openssl.fips file.

.. code-block:: ini
   :caption: openssl.conf config file

   .include /etc/ssl/openssl.fips

Once done, openSUSE/SLE system binaries using OpenSSL will by default used only FIPS validated mechanism.

FIPS Test procedure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An enabled `FIPS` computer can be checked with the following procedure

> a) Ensure fips_enabled is on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure fips_enabled is on
```

.. code-block:: shell-session
   :caption: Check FIPS enabled

   sysctl -a | grep fips

> crypto.fips_enabled = 0 shows that fips is not running. If crypto.fips_enabled = 1, then fips is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**crypto.fips_enabled = 0** shows that fips is not running. If **crypto.fips_enabled = 1**, then fips is running.
```

to enable it refer to OS documentation (mostly adding fips=1 on boot line)

> b) Run openssl server part

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run openssl server part
```

.. code-block:: shell-session
   :caption: run openssl server fips

   OPENSSL_FORCE_FIPS_MODE=1 openssl s_server -tls1_3 -nocert -psk 1234567890

> c) Run openssl client part

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run openssl client part
```

.. code-block:: shell-session
   :caption: run openssl client fips

>    OPENSSL_FORCE_FIPS_MODE=1 openssl s_client -tls1_3 -nocert -psk 1234567890

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   OPENSSL_FORCE_FIPS_MODE=1 openssl s_client -tls1_3 -psk 1234567890
```

SLE 15 SP4 does not have "-nocert" in s_client

> d) Expected result, connection is established with a FIPS-140 2 compatible mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Expected result, connection is established with a FIPS-140 2 compatible mechanism.
```
